




This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Star Wars Rogue Squadron III:
Rebel Strike



North American cover art



Developer(s)
Factor 5


Publisher(s)


NA / PAL: LucasArts


JP: Electronic Arts




Director(s)
Julian Eggebrecht


Series
Star Wars: Rogue Squadron


Platform(s)
GameCube


Release date(s)


NA: October 15, 2003[1]
PAL: November 7, 2003[1]


JP: November 21, 2003




Genre(s)
Action


Mode(s)
Single-player, multiplayer


Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike is an action video game developed by Factor 5 and published by LucasArts exclusively for the Nintendo GameCube. The game is set during the original Star Wars trilogy and recreates battles that take place during those films. The game follows the Rogue Squadron, which, under the command of Luke Skywalker and Wedge Antilles, uses starfighters to engage and defeat the Galactic Empire.
Rebel Strike was developed as a sequel to Star Wars: Rogue Squadron and Star Wars Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader. Rebel Strike added the ability for players to leave their starfighters to participate in ground battles as well as enter and pilot other vehicles during certain missions. The game also has a two-player multiplayer mode allowing co-operative play for all but two missions from Rogue Leader.



Contents


1 Gameplay

1.1 Single-player
1.2 Multiplayer


2 Plot
3 Development
4 Reception
5 References
6 External links



Gameplay[edit]



This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (November 2012)


Single-player[edit]
Rebel Strike contains on-foot missions and space battle missions, as in the previous Rogue Squadron games. The game also includes some unlockable classic missions inspired by the Star Wars original trilogy.
Multiplayer[edit]
Rebel Strike features two multiplayer modes: Co-op and Versus. Co-op allows players to replay missions from Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader in split-screen, excluding the levels "Triumph of the Empire" and "Revenge on Yavin". In Co-op, players share the same pool of lives. Versus features a variety of modes, such as Dogfight and Survival. In any Versus mode, players can pilot several craft, including X-Wings, A-Wings, TIE Fighters, and Darth Vader's TIE Advanced.
Plot[edit]
The story is set shortly after the destruction of the Death Star above Yavin 4. The Empire drives the Alliance off the moon, leaving the Alliance searching for a planet to serve as its next base. Tycho Celchu, an Imperial officer, defects to the Alliance on Dantooine and leads it to a group of scientists on Ralltiir who wish to defect. During the battle to rescue the scientists, Rogue Squadron member Sarkli defects to the Empire. Despite this, Rogue Squadron and the scientists escape safely in a transport craft. The Rebels settle on Hoth, but the Battle of Hoth forces them to leave as the Empire attacks and destroys their base.
The Wedge Antilles campaign takes place after the Battle of Hoth, leading a raid on Bakura to extract rebel hostages from the orbiting prison. Sarkli leads Rogue Squadron into Geonosis's orbit, where they both crash following an ambush by TIE fighters and Imperial escort carriers. Rogue Squadron fights with stormtroopers and battle droid remnants. By making use of various pieces of deactivated Galactic Republic machinery left over from the Battle of Geonosis, Rogue Squadron escapes and Wedge flees the system. This uncovers a ploy to wipe out part of the Alliance fleet over Dubrillion, and, in response, Rogue Squadron raids the shipyards of Fondor to destroy a Super Star Destroyer under construction. Emperor Palpatine reveals that the recent battles were manipulated,[clarification needed] making the Rebels overconfident. This proves disadvantageous to the Rebels in the upcoming Battle of Endor. Nevertheless, Han Solo, having been rescued from Jabba the Hutt, disables the shield protecting the second Death Star over Endor while killing Sarkli, allowing the Rebels to achieve victory.
Development[edit]
Since Rebel Strike would be a "second generation game", the production team felt the need to expand upon the game's predecessor by adding enhanced atmospheric effects, more impressive explosions and the capability of having many more enemies on-screen at once than Rogue Leader could handle, among other improvements.
The game ran into some troubled development. Because of the decision by Director of Technology Thomas Engel and Development Director Holger Schmidt to scrap all the coding of the engine for Rogue Leader so they could "reinvent the wheel" with the knowledge of the GameCube engine they had at that point, Factor 5 ran into various glitches as well as ultimately had various difficulties in development of a new landscape engine, causing it to go as long as tedious as in Rogue Leader, due to underestimating the amount of time it would take to do so.[2]
Pre-orders for the game included a bonus disc featuring several game demos, trailers, a playable version of the original Star Wars arcade game (which can also be unlocked in the main game) and a Rebel Strike art gallery.[3]
Reception[edit]



This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (November 2012)




Reception





Aggregate scores


Aggregator
Score


GameRankings
76.61%[4]


Metacritic
75/100[5]


Review scores


Publication
Score


Edge
5/10[6]


EGM
7.17/10[7]


Eurogamer
4/10[8]


Famitsu
30/40[9]


Game Informer
6.5/10[10]


GamePro
[11]


Game Revolution
B−[12]


GameSpot
7.8/10[13]


GameSpy
[14]


GameZone
8.5/10[15]


IGN
8.3/10[16]


Nintendo Life
[17]


Nintendo Power
4.7/5[18]





Rebel Strike was met with positive reception, as GameRankings gave it a score of 76.61%,[4] while Metacritic gave it 75 out of 100.[5] Critics praised the intense gameplay and the ability to have more enemies on screen than on Rogue Leader. However, Rebel Strike was criticized for its on-foot missions, due to their clunky gameplay and lack of refinement.[16]

References[edit]


^ a b "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike Release Information for GameCube". GameFAQs. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ The Making of Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike, included in Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike, 2001.
^ "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike Bonus Disc Impressions". GameSpot. Retrieved 11 April 2015. 
^ a b "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike for GameCube". GameRankings. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ a b "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike for GameCube Reviews". Metacritic. CBS Interactive, Inc. Retrieved 2 November 2012. 
^ Edge staff (December 2003). "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike". Edge (130): 92. 
^ EGM staff (December 2003). "Star Wars Rebel Strike: Rogue Squadron III [sic]". Electronic Gaming Monthly (174). Archived from the original on 10 December 2003. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ Bramwell, Tom (7 November 2003). "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike". Eurogamer. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ "Point Plus 30: スター・ウォーズ ローグ スコードロンIII". Famitsū. 1153: 40. 20 January 2011. 
^ Reiner, Andrew (November 2003). "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III Rebel Strike". Game Informer (127): 155. Archived from the original on 1 November 2007. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ Four-Eyed Dragon (21 October 2003). "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike Review for GameCube on GamePro.com". GamePro. Archived from the original on 13 March 2005. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ Gee, Brian (October 2003). "Star Wars [Rogue Squadron III]: Rebel Strike Review". Game Revolution. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ Shoemaker, Brad (20 October 2003). "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike Review". GameSpot. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ Williams, Bryn (28 October 2003). "GameSpy: Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike". GameSpy. Archived from the original on 8 December 2005. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ Bedigian, Louis (2 November 2003). "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike - GC - Review". GameZone. Archived from the original on 25 January 2009. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ a b Casamassina, Matt (20 October 2003). "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike". IGN. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ Watts, Martin (6 July 2013). "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike (GameCube) Review". NintendoLife. Retrieved 30 August 2014. 
^ "Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike". Nintendo Power. 175: 140. December 2003. 


External links[edit]

Star Wars Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike at MobyGames







v
t
e


Star Wars: Rogue Squadron






Video games



Rogue Squadron
Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader
Rogue Squardron III: Rebel Strike





Related games




Star Wars Episode I: Battle for Naboo











Developers



Factor 5
LucasArts











 Book:Star Wars: Rogue Squadron series












v
t
e


Star Wars video games









List
LucasArts








Action



The Empire Strikes Back (1982)
Return of the Jedi: Death Star Battle
Return of the Jedi: Ewok Adventure (cancelled)
Jedi Arena
Star Wars (1987)
Star Wars (1991)
Droids
The Empire Strikes Back (1992)
Super Star Wars
Super Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back
Rebel Assault
Super Star Wars: Return of the Jedi
Shadows of the Empire
Rebel Assault II: The Hidden Empire
Masters of Teräs Käsi
Rogue Squadron
Demolition
Episode I: Battle for Naboo
Starfighter
Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader
Jedi Starfighter
The Clone Wars (2002)
Apprentice of the Force
Bounty Hunter
The New Droid Army
Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike
Flight of the Falcon
Kinect
Attack Squadrons (cancelled)








Action-adventure



Yoda Stories
Episode I: The Phantom Menace
Episode I: Jedi Power Battles
Episode I: Obi-Wan's Adventures
Obi-Wan
Episode II: Attack of the Clones
Lego Star Wars: The Video Game
Episode III: Revenge of the Sith
Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy
Lethal Alliance
Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga
The Force Unleashed
The Clone Wars – Jedi Alliance
The Clone Wars – Lightsaber Duels
The Clone Wars – Republic Heroes
The Force Unleashed II
Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars
1313 (cancelled)
Disney Infinity 3.0
Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens








Arcade



Star Wars
Return of the Jedi
The Empire Strikes Back
Arcade
Trilogy Arcade
Racer Arcade
Battle Pod





Pinball




The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars
Star Wars Trilogy
Star Wars Episode I











Racing



Star Wars Episode I: Racer
Racer Arcade
Super Bombad Racing
Racer Revenge








Role-playing



Galaxies

Jump to Lightspeed


Knights of the Old Republic
Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords
The Old Republic
Uprising
Galaxy of Heroes








Simulation



X-Wing series

X-Wing
TIE Fighter
X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter
X-Wing Alliance










Strategy



Rebellion
Force Commander
Galactic Battlegrounds
Empire at War

Forces of Corruption










First-person shooter



Dark Forces
Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II
Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast
Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy
Republic Commando








Third-person shooter



Battlefront (2004)
Battlefront II
Battlefront: Renegade Squadron
Battlefront: Elite Squadron
Battlefront (2015)








Puzzle



Angry Birds Star Wars
Angry Birds Star Wars II











 Book
 Category
 Portal







