
STI West Negros University

Pamantasang STI ng Kanlurang Negros






Former names




West Negros University
West Negros College





Motto



"Education For Real Life"
"Veritas et Virtus"
(Truth and Virtue)
(as West Negros University)





Type
Private university, for-profit studies, nonsectarian


Established
1948


Endowment
No available figures (Php)


President
Atty. Monico V. Jacob


Location
Bacolod City, Negros Occidental, Philippines


Campus
Urban, 4 hectares


Colors
Yellow, Blue & White               


Athletics
NOPSSCEA


Nickname
STI Wesnecans, Mustangs


Mascot
Globe, Mustang


Website
http://www.sti.edu


STI West Negros University (STI WNU), is a private university located in Bacolod City, Negros Occidental, Philippines. The university is a second level-accredited school by the Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities - Commission On Accreditation (PACU-COA) and awards degrees in associate, bachelor, master, and doctorate levels. STI West Negros University has an enrollment of about 10,000 students per semester and produces 1,500 graduates every school year. It also offers complete pre-school and basic education (elementary, junior & senior high school) through its Integrated School (IS).
The acronym STI is an orphan initialism.



Contents


1 History
2 Events
3 External links
4 References



History[edit]




West Negros University seal from 2008–2014


West Negros College was founded in 1948 by three Baptist women leaders - Luciana Aritao, Teresa Padilla and Rosario Remitio. They believed that the school would fulfill their dream of Filipinos embracing Christian ideals and tenets. Leodegario Natividad Agustin became the school President in the 1970s; he provided the impetus, despite financial odds, to make West Negros College a successful academic community.
On February 11, 2008, the Commission on Higher Education found West Negros College to be in full compliance of their requirements and granted West Negros College status as a university.
In April 2013, STI Education Systems Holdings, Inc. announced in a disclosure that they had signed a memorandum of agreement with West Negros University for the acquisition of a controlling interest in the school.[1][2]
In 2015, STI College in nearby Lacson Street transferred and merged all of its operations to the newly renovated campus of West Negros University in Burgos Street and completely changed the institution's name to STI West Negros University.
Events[edit]




The new STI West Negros University facade along Burgos St., Bacolod City


The school's gymnasium served as a competition venue for indoor volleyball in the 2005 Southeast Asian Games.
External links[edit]

STI Official website
West Negros University's former official site

References[edit]


^ Morales, Neil Jerome (2013-04-17). "STI acquires West Negros University". The Philippine Star. Retrieved 2013-04-09. 
^ Austria, Jennifer (2013-04-17). "STI signs deal to acquire West Negros University in Bacolod". Manila Standard Today. Retrieved 2013-04-09. 








v
t
e


STI Education Systems Holdings, Inc.









STI College
iACADEMY
Philippine Women's University (PWU)
Jose Abad Santos Memorial School Manila (JASMS Manila)
Jose Abad Santos Memorial School Quezon City (JASMS Quezon City)
STI West Negros University (WNU)
De Los Santos-STI College of Health Professionals
Makati Medical Center College












v
t
e


Colleges and Universities in Bacolod City






Universities



University of Negros Occidental – Recoletos
University of St. La Salle
STI West Negros University








Colleges



ABE International Business College – Bacolod Campus
AMA Computer College – Bacolod Campus
Bacolod City College
Bacolod Christian College of Negros
Carlos Hilado Memorial State College
Colegio San Agustin – Bacolod
College of Arts & Sciences of Asia & the Pacific – Bacolod Campus
John B. Lacson Colleges Foundation – Bacolod, Inc.
La Consolacion College–Bacolod
Our Lady of Mercy College – Bacolod
Riverside College, Inc.
VMA Global College












v
t
e


Protestant Colleges and Universities in the Philippines






Universities



Adventist University of the Philippines
Adventist International Institute of Advanced Studies
Central Philippine University
Filamer Christian University
Philippine Christian University
Silliman University
Trinity University of Asia
Wesleyan University Philippines
STI West Negros University








Colleges



Bacolod Christian College of Negros
Central Philippine Adventist College
Manila Adventist Medical Center and Colleges
Mindanao Sanitarium and Hospital College
Mountain View College
South Philippine Adventist College








