




This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Fox in Socks




Author
Dr. Seuss


Country
United States


Language
English


Genre
Children's literature


Publisher
Random House



Publication date

1965 (renewed 1993)


Media type
Print (Hardcover and paperback)


OCLC
304375


Preceded by
Hop on Pop


Followed by
I Had Trouble in Getting to Solla Sollew




Children's literature portal


Fox in Socks is a children's book by Dr. Seuss, first published in 1965. It features two main characters, Fox (an anthropomorphic fox) and Knox, who speak almost entirely in densely rhyming tongue-twisters.
The book in some ways bears a resemblance to Green Eggs and Ham, another book by Dr. Seuss. Both stories contain two main characters: one who is stubborn and wants to be left alone; the other, a persistent and sometimes annoying opposite.
Storyline[edit]
The book begins by introducing Fox and Knox (sometimes called "Mr. Fox" and "Mr. Knox") along with some props (a box and a pair of socks). After taking those four rhyming items through several permutations, more items are added (chicks, bricks, blocks, clocks), and so on. As the book progresses the Fox describes each situation with rhymes that progress in complexity, with Knox periodically complaining of the difficulty of the tongue-twisters.
Finally, after the Fox gives an extended dissertation on Tweetle Beetles who battle with paddles while standing in a puddle inside a bottle on a poodle eating noodles (a Muddle Puddle Tweetle Poodle Beetle Noodle Bottle Paddle Battle), Knox acts on his frustration by stuffing Fox into the bottle, reciting a tongue-twister of his own:

When a fox is in the bottle where the tweetle beetles battle with their paddles in a puddle on a noodle-eating poodle, THIS is what they call...
...a tweetle beetle noodle poodle bottled paddled muddled duddled fuddled wuddled fox in socks, sir!

Knox then declares that the game is finished, thanking the Fox for the fun, and walks away while the beetles, the poodle, and the stunned Fox watch.
Adaptations[edit]
The Tweetle Beetle skit was featured in The Hoober-Bloob Highway, a 1975 CBS television special. Here, the skit was part of a job: that of a "famous Tweetle Beetle statistician". If you took on this job, "you could be the world's greatest authority on Tweetle Beetle battlistics, if you study Tweetle Beetles and their ballistic characteristics." It ended by cutting back to the base, with Mr. Hoober-Bloob waving his arms around, covering his ears, and yelling, "Stop it! Stop it! I can't stand it! That world is a vastly cruddy, bloody bore!" The dissertation was read by Bob Holt, the voice of Mr. Hoober-Bloob, using a German impression similar to Ludwig von Drake.
On the Dr. Seuss Presents... Audio CD Series, the story was narrated by Marvin Miller (read in both a normal-speed and a fast version), along with Green Eggs and Ham, Horton Hatches the Egg, The Sneetches and Other Stories, Yertle the Turtle and Other Stories, Bartholomew and the Oobleck, If I Ran the Zoo, and Dr. Seuss's Sleep Book.
The entire book was translated by the Israeli author and lyricist Leah Na'or into Hebrew as "בא עם גרבים" (Ba Im Garba'im, literally "He Came With Socks"). Some emendations were made to the original text for better rhyming; for example, Knox's name, in this version, is "ברגז" (Bargaz), to rhyme with "ארגז" (argaz, meaning box), and the chicks in the beginning of the book became ducks. Occasionally the translator wrote a new tongue-twister to fit the existing artwork; the entire poem about the cheese trees, for instance, was replaced with an entirely new poem about an elephant who tripped and fell on his nose. This version of the book was published in 1980 by Keter Publications in Jerusalem.






v
t
e


Dr. Seuss






Characters



The Cat in the Hat
Bartholomew Cubbins
The Grinch
Horton the Elephant
The Lorax








Bibliography



And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street
The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins
The King's Stilts
The Seven Lady Godivas
Horton Hatches the Egg
McElligot's Pool
Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose
Bartholomew and the Oobleck
If I Ran the Zoo
Scrambled Eggs Super!
Horton Hears a Who!
On Beyond Zebra!
If I Ran the Circus
How the Grinch Stole Christmas!
The Cat in the Hat
The Cat in the Hat Comes Back
Yertle the Turtle and Other Stories
Happy Birthday to You!
Green Eggs and Ham
One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish
The Sneetches and Other Stories
Dr. Seuss's Sleep Book
Dr. Seuss's ABC
Fox in Socks
Hop on Pop
I Had Trouble in Getting to Solla Sollew
Come over to My House 1
The Cat in the Hat Songbook
The Foot Book
I Can Lick 30 Tigers Today! and Other Stories
Mr. Brown Can Moo! Can You?: Dr. Seuss's Book of Wonderful Noises!
The Lorax
Marvin K. Mooney Will You Please Go Now!
Did I Ever Tell You How Lucky You Are?
Wacky Wednesday
Great Day for Up!
Oh, the Thinks You Can Think!
The Cat's Quizzer
I Can Read with My Eyes Shut!
Oh Say Can You Say?
The Butter Battle Book
You're Only Old Once!
Oh, the Places You'll Go!
There's a Wocket in My Pocket
I Wish That I Had Duck Feet 1
Daisy-Head Mayzie 2
My Many Colored Days 2
Hooray for Diffendoofer Day! 2
The Bippolo Seed and Other Lost Stories 2
Horton and the Kwuggerbug and More Lost Stories 2
What Pet Should I Get? 2








Adaptations





Television




Gerald McBoing-Boing (1950, 1956–57)
Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas! (1966)
Horton Hears a Who! (1970)
The Cat in the Hat (1971)
The Lorax (1972)
Dr. Seuss on the Loose (1973)
The Hoober-Bloob Highway (1975)
Halloween Is Grinch Night (1977)
Pontoffel Pock, Where Are You? (1980)
The Grinch Grinches the Cat in the Hat (1982)
The Butter Battle Book (1989)
In Search of Dr. Seuss (1994)
Daisy-Head Mayzie (1995)
The Wubbulous World of Dr. Seuss (1996–98)
Because a Little Bug Went Ka-Choo (2001)
Gerald McBoing-Boing (2005–07)
The Cat in the Hat Knows a Lot About That! (2010–present)
Green Eggs and Ham (2018)









Film




Horton Hatches the Egg (short film)
Gerald McBoing-Boing (short film)
How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2000)
The Cat in the Hat (2003)
Horton Hears a Who! (2008)
The Lorax (2012)
How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2018)









Other media




Welcome (Russian short film)
Seussical (musical)
Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas! The Musical
The Grinch (video game)
Dr. Seuss: How The Grinch Stole Christmas! (video game)
"You're a Mean One, Mr. Grinch" (song)











Other works



Private Snafu
The Pocket Book of Boners
Your Job in Germany
Our Job in Japan
Design for Death
The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T
Hejji
Society of Red Tape Cutters
Flit








Related



A Fish out of Water
Beginner Books
Dr. Seuss Goes to War
The Secret Art of Dr. Seuss
Dr. Seuss National Memorial
Geisel Award
Geisel Library
Geisel School of Medicine
Helen Palmer Geisel
PM
Quotes
Read Across America
Seuss Landing









1 as "Theo. LeSieg".   2 Posthumous.





